
<!-- @import "[TOC]" {cmd="toc" depthFrom=1 depthTo=6 orderedList=false} -->

<!-- code_chunk_output -->

- [openssl ec](#openssl-ec)
  - [官方帮助文档](#官方帮助文档)
    - [NAME](#name)
    - [SYNOPSIS](#synopsis)
    - [DESCRIPTION](#description)
    - [OPTIONS](#options)
    - [EXAMPLES](#examples)

<!-- /code_chunk_output -->

# openssl ec

[openssl.org - openssl ec](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man3.0/man1/ec.html)

## 官方帮助文档
### NAME

openssl-ec - EC key processing 
EC密钥处理

### SYNOPSIS

openssl ec [-help] [-inform DER|PEM|P12|ENGINE] [-outform DER|PEM] [-in filename|uri] [-passin arg] [-out filename] [-passout arg] [-des] [-des3] [-idea] [-text] [-noout] [-param_out] [-pubin] [-pubout] [-conv_form arg] [-param_enc arg] [-no_public] [-check] [-engine id] [-provider name] [-provider-path path] [-propquery propq]

### DESCRIPTION

The openssl-ec(1) command processes EC keys. They can be converted between various forms and their components printed out. Note OpenSSL uses the private key format specified in ‘SEC 1: Elliptic Curve Cryptography’ (<http://www.secg.org/>). To convert an OpenSSL EC private key into the PKCS#8 private key format use the openssl-pkcs8(1) command.
openssl-ec（1）命令处理EC密钥。它们可以在各种形式和打印出来的组件之间转换。注意OpenSSL使用“SEC 1：椭圆曲线密码学”（<http://www.secg.org/）中指定的私钥格式。要将OpenSSL> EC私钥转换为PKCS#8私钥格式，请使用openssl-pkcs8(1)命令。
### OPTIONS

* **-help**
Print out a usage message.

* **-inform DER|PEM|P12|ENGINE**
The key input format; unspecified by default. See openssl-format-options(1) for details.

* **-outform DER|PEM**
The key output format; the default is PEM. See openssl-format-options(1) for details.
Private keys are an SEC1 private key or PKCS#8 format. Public keys are a SubjectPublicKeyInfo as specified in IETF RFC 3280.

* **-in** *filename|uri*
This specifies the input to read a key from or standard input if this option is not specified. If the key is encrypted a pass phrase will be prompted for.

* **-out** *filename*
This specifies the output filename to write a key to or standard output by is not specified. If any encryption options are set then a pass phrase will be prompted for. The output filename should not be the same as the input filename.

* **-passin** *arg*, **-passout** *arg*
The password source for the input and output file. For more information about the format of arg see openssl-passphrase-options(1).

* **-des|-des3|-idea**
These options encrypt the private key with the DES, triple DES, IDEA or any other cipher supported by OpenSSL before outputting it. A pass phrase is prompted for. If none of these options is specified the key is written in plain text. This means that using this command to read in an encrypted key with no encryption option can be used to remove the pass phrase from a key, or by setting the encryption options it can be use to add or change the pass phrase. These options can only be used with PEM format output files.

* **-text**
Prints out the public, private key components and parameters.

* **-noout**
This option prevents output of the encoded version of the key.

* **-param_out**
Print the elliptic curve parameters.

* **-pubin**
By default, a private key is read from the input file. With this option a public key is read instead.

* **-pubout**
By default a private key is output. With this option a public key will be output instead. This option is automatically set if the input is a public key.

* **-conv_form arg**
This specifies how the points on the elliptic curve are converted into octet strings. Possible values are: compressed, uncompressed (the default value) and hybrid. For more information regarding the point conversion forms please read the X9.62 standard. Note Due to patent issues the compressed option is disabled by default for binary curves and can be enabled by defining the preprocessor macro OPENSSL_EC_BIN_PT_COMP at compile time.
这指定了椭圆曲线上的点如何转换为八位字节串。可能的值是：压缩、未压缩（默认值）和混合值。有关点转换形式的更多信息，请阅读X9.62标准。注意：由于专利问题，二进制曲线默认禁用压缩选项，并且可以通过在编译时定义预处理器宏OPENSSL_EC_BIN_PT_COMP来启用。

* **-param_enc arg**
This specifies how the elliptic curve parameters are encoded. Possible value are: named_curve, i.e. the ec parameters are specified by an OID, or explicit where the ec parameters are explicitly given (see RFC 3279 for the definition of the EC parameters structures). The default value is named_curve. Note the implicitlyCA alternative, as specified in RFC 3279, is currently not implemented in OpenSSL.
这指定了椭圆曲线参数的编码方式。可能的值是：named_curve，即ec参数由OID指定，或者在明确给出ec参数的地方显式（EC参数结构的定义见RFC 3279）。默认值是named_curve。请注意，RFC 3279中指定的implicitlyCA替代品目前未在OpenSSL中实现。

* **-no_public**
This option omits the public key components from the private key output.

* **-check**
This option checks the consistency of an EC private or public key.

* **-engine id**
See “Engine Options” in openssl(1). This option is deprecated.

### EXAMPLES

The documentation for the openssl-pkey(1) command contains examples equivalent to the ones listed here.

* 准备密钥文件.产生一个key.pem公私钥文件
```bash
openssl ecparam -name SM2 -genkey -out key.pem
```

* 使用DES加密私钥

```bash
openssl ec -in key.pem -des3 -out keyout.pem
```

* 将私钥格式从PEM转换到DER

```bash
openssl ec -in key.pem -outform DER -out keyout.der
```

* 打印私钥格式内容 

```bash
openssl ec -in key.pem -text -noout
```

* 从私钥文件中分离出公钥

```bash
openssl ec -in key.pem -pubout -out pubkey.pem
```

To change the parameters encoding to explicit:

```bash
openssl ec -in key.pem -param_enc explicit -out keyout.pem
```
To change the point conversion form to compressed:

```bash
openssl ec -in key.pem -conv_form compressed -out keyout.pem
```


